---
layout: post
title:  "Search The Atlas - CLI Data Gem Scraper Project"
date:   2017-09-27 20:38:43 -0400
---


     For my CLI data gem project I got a bit too ambitions. Considering that this was the first truly individual assignment in the program I wanted to scrape a site that I frequent. My first thought was wikipedia's List of Lists, which would have been a fun project. Ultimately I rejected this idea because one of the lecture videos featured a wikipedia scraper and using the site may have also been discouraged in the assignment details. I ended up deciding to scrape the content off of a travel site called Atlas Obscura dot com. The site is predominantly non-traditional tourist destinations mixed with a History's Mysteries vibe and bills itself as "The definitive map of the world's extraordinary sights". Ultimately, I wanted to build a CLI application that I could show off as being a bit more than an exercise coding practices. 
    
    	In order to produce a usable application I needed to dig deeper than was required for the project. The application begins by scraping a list of continents and subcontinents and listing them for user selection. On the site the individual countries are hidden in a collapsible drop down menu so I was able to scrape the continent name, country name and a relative link to the country's page from a single url. Once the user selects a continent the countries are displayed for selection. On the site, the top 8 most popular destinations in a country are displayed on a main page along with a link to additional destinations if available, which is the url that I used for my scraper as it displays the top 16 most popular destinations instead of just 8. Upon selection of a country, my application will then display up to 16 of the most popular destinations within. Each destination is listed with a title, city (if applicable), and country along with a short description of the location. From there the user can read the full text content from that destination's page and then given the option to select a new continent, country, view other destinations within the current country or exit. I'm happy to say that all of this works well.
			
    For a majority of my time working on the project almost all of my time spent was productive. Every time I sat down to work, I managed to accomplish exactly what I set out to accomplish. There were a number of obstacles that popped up and I spent hours writing confusingly tangled code that failed only to discover that my problem was easily solved with a method call. I wrote another method that seems unnecessarily complex but it works and I simply can't think of another way to accomplish that function. Despite all that I felt that I was extremely well prepared for this project. Between the object collaboration exercises and the prerecorded video exercises I knew exactly what how I needed this application to work. I'm not sure if this application is written as well as it could be, but thats why I'm in the program. 
		

